Create Documentation for the ComInterfaceGenerator (#36833)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/native-interop/comwrappers-source-generation.md

---
title: ComWrappers source generation
description: Learn about compile-time source generation for ComWrappers in .NET.
ms.date: 08/25/2023
---

> 

Reviewer: Add the new pages to the table of contents:
https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/70455ed0720e94c61a6452baba6ea50fbe31435a/docs/navigate/advanced-programming/toc.yml#L312

# Source Generation for ComWrappers

.NET 8 introduces a source generator that creates an implementation of the [ComWrappers](./com-wrappers.md) API for you. The generator recognizes the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute>.

> The .NET runtime's built-in (not source-generated), Windows-only, COM interop system generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that is JIT-ed&mdash;at run time to facilitate the transition from managed code to COM, and vice-versa. Since this IL stub is generated at run time, it isn't compatible with [NativeAOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md), or [IL trimming](../../core/deploying/trimming/trim-self-contained.md). Run time stub generation also makes diagnosing marshalling issues difficult.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .NET runtime's built-in (not source-generated), Windows-only, COM interop system generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that is JIT-ed&mdash;at run-time to facilitate the transition from managed code to COM, and vice-versa. Since this IL stub is generated at run-time, it isn't compatible with [NativeAOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md), or [IL trimming](../../core/deploying/trimming/trim-self-contained.md). Stub generation at run-time can also make diagnosing marshalling issues difficult.
```

> Code using built-in interop might use attributes such as ComImport or DllImport. These rely on run time code generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code using built-in interop uses attributes such as `ComImport` or `DllImport`, which rely on code generation at run-time.
```

> Code using built-in interop uses attributes such as `ComImport` or `DllImport`, which rely on code generation at run-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built-in interop uses attributes such as `ComImport` or `DllImport`, which rely on code generation at run-time. The following code shows an example of this:
```

```csharp
[ComImport]
interface IFoo
{
    void Method(int i);
}

[DllImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static nint GetPointerToComInterface();

[DllImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static void GivePointerToComInterface(nint comObject);

// Use the system to create a Runtime Callable Wrapper to use in managed code
nint ptr = GetPointerToComInterface();

> IFoo foo = Marshal.GetObjectForIUnknown(ptr);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IFoo foo = (IFoo)Marshal.GetObjectForIUnknown(ptr);
```

foo.Method(0);
...
// Use the system to create a COM Callable Wrapper to pass to unmanaged code
IFoo foo = GetManagedIFoo();
nint ptr = Marshal.GetIUnknownForObject(foo);

> GivePointerToComInterface(nint ptr);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GivePointerToComInterface(ptr);
```

```

> The ComWrappers API enables interacting with COM in C# without using the the built-in COM system, but [requires lots of boilerplate and hand written unsafe code](./tutorial-comwrappers.md). The COM interface generator automates that process and makes ComWrappers as easy as built-in COM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ComWrappers API enables interacting with COM in C# without using the the built-in COM system, but [requires substantial boilerplate and hand written unsafe code](./tutorial-comwrappers.md). The COM interface generator automates this process and makes ComWrappers as easy as built-in COM, but delivers it in a trimmable and AOT friendly manner.
```

> The ComWrappers API enables interacting with COM in C# without using the the built-in COM system, but [requires substantial boilerplate and hand written unsafe code](./tutorial-comwrappers.md). The COM interface generator automates this process and makes ComWrappers as easy as built-in COM, but delivers it in a trimmable and AOT friendly manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ComWrappers` API enables interacting with COM in C# without using the built-in COM system, but [requires substantial boilerplate and hand-written unsafe code](./tutorial-comwrappers.md). The COM interface generator automates this process and makes `ComWrappers` as easy as built-in COM, but delivers it in a trimmable and AOT-friendly manner.
```

## Basic usage

> To use the COM interface generator, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.GuidAttribute> attributes on the interface definition that you want to import from COM or expose to COM. The type will also need to be `partial` and have `internal` or `public` visibility for the generated code to be able to access it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the COM interface generator, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.GuidAttribute> attributes on the interface definition that you want to import from or expose to COM. The type must be marked `partial` and have `internal` or `public` visibility for the generated code to be able to access it.
```

```csharp
[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
internal partial IFoo
{
    void Method(int i);
}
```

Then, to expose a class that implements an interface to COM, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> to the implementing class. This class will also need to be `partial` and either `internal` or `public`.

```csharp
[GeneratedComClass]
internal partial class Foo : IFoo
{
    public void Method(int i)
    {
        // Do things
    }
}
```

At compile time, the generator will create an implementation of the ComWrappers API, and you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.StrategyBasedComWrappers> type or a custom derived type to consume or expose the COM interface.

```csharp
[LibraryImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static nint GetPointerToComInterface();

[LibraryImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static void GivePointerToComInterface(nint comObject);

> // Use the system to create a Runtime Callable Wrapper to use in managed code

Reviewer: `Use the system` makes it sound like it is using the built-in system to me.

ComWrappers cw = new StrategyBasedComWrappers();
nint ptr = GetPointerToComInterface();

> IFoo foo = cw.GetOrCreateObjectForComInterface(ptr);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IFoo foo = (IFoo)cw.GetOrCreateObjectForComInterface(ptr);
```

foo.Method(0);
...
// Use the system to create a COM Callable Wrapper to pass to unmanaged code
ComWrappers cw = new StrategyBasedComWrappers();

> Foo foo = new Foo();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Foo foo = new();
```

nint ptr = cw.GetOrCreateComInterfaceForObject(foo);

> GivePointerToComInterface(nint ptr);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GivePointerToComInterface(ptr);
```

```

## Customizing marshalling

> The COM interface generator respects the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.MarshalUsingAttribute> attributes to customize marshalling of parameters. For more information, see [Customize Parameter Marshalling](./customize-parameter-marshalling.md) If an interface has `string` parameters or return types, the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshalling?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshallingCustomType?displayProperty=nameWithType> properties will apply to all parameters and return types of `string` in the interface if they don't have other marshalling attributes.

Reviewer: > For more information, see [Customize Parameter Marshalling](./customize-parameter-marshalling.md)

That doc only covers `MarshalAs`? Would it make sense to also link to the tutorial for using custom marshallers with `MarshalUsing`? (And maybe add a note in the 'Customize Parameter Marshalling' to mention source generation and the associated customization method)

Author: Added notes in `Customize Parameter Marshalling` that MarshalAs is only partially supported with source generated interop, and linked to the page discussing MarshalUsing

## Implicit HRESULTs and PreserveSig

> COM methods in C# have a different signature than the native methods. Standard COM has a return type of HRESULT, a 4 byte code representing error and success states. This return value is hidden in the C# signature. The C# return value is converted into an additional parameter in the native signature, and the HRESULT is handled by the generated code, which will throw an exception if the HRESULT is an error value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
COM methods in C# have a different signature than the native methods. Standard COM has a return type of `HRESULT`, a 4 byte integer type representing error and success states. This `HRESULT` return value is hidden by default in the C# signature and converted to an exception when a error value is returned. The last "out" parameter of the native COM signature may be converted into the return in the C# signature, this is optional.
```

> COM methods in C# have a different signature than the native methods. Standard COM has a return type of HRESULT, a 4 byte code representing error and success states. This return value is hidden in the C# signature. The C# return value is converted into an additional parameter in the native signature, and the HRESULT is handled by the generated code, which will throw an exception if the HRESULT is an error value.

Author: ```suggestion
COM methods in C# have a different signature than the native methods. Standard COM has a return type of `HRESULT`, a 4 byte integer type representing error and success states. This `HRESULT` return value is hidden by default in the C# signature and converted to an exception when an error value is returned. The last "out" parameter of the native COM signature may optionally be converted into the return in the C# signature.
```

For example, the following snippets show C# method signatures and the corresponding native signature the generator infers.

```csharp
void Method1(int i);

int Method2(float i);
```

```c
HRESULT Method1(int i);

HRESULT Method2(float i, _Out_ int* returnValue);
```

If you want to handle the HRESULT yourself, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> on the method to indicate the generator should not do this transformation. Below are snippets that demonstrate what native signature the generator expects when `[PreserveSig]` is applied.

```csharp
[PreserveSig]
void Method1(int i);

[PreserveSig]
int Method2(float i);
```

```c

> int Method1(int i);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
void Method1(int i);
```

Author: Changed the managed signature to return an int

int Method2(float i);
```

## Incompatibilities and differences to built-in COM

### IUnknown only

The only supported interface base is [IUnknown](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown). Interfaces with an <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InterfaceTypeAttribute> with a value other values than <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsIUnknown> are not supported in source-generated COM. Any interfaces without an `InterfaceTypeAttribute` are assumed to derive from `IUnknown`. This differs from built-in COM where the default is <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsDual>.

## Marshalling defaults and support

Source-generated COM has some different default marshalling behaviors from built in COM.

> - In built-in COM, all types had an implicit `[In]` attribute except for arrays of blittable elements, which had implicit `[In, Out]` attributes. In source-generated COM, all types, including arrays of blittable elements, have `[In]` semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the built-in COM system, all types had an implicit `[In]` attribute except for arrays of blittable elements, which had implicit `[In, Out]` attributes. In source-generated COM, all types, including arrays of blittable elements, have `[In]` semantics.
```

> - `[In]` and `[Out]` attributes are only allowed on arrays. If `[Out]` or `[In, Out]` behavior is required on other types, it is recommended to use the `in` and `out` parameter modifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `[In]` and `[Out]` attributes are only allowed on arrays. If `[Out]` or `[In, Out]` behavior is required on other types, use the `in` and `out` parameter modifiers.
```

### Derived interfaces

> In the built-in COM system, if you had interfaces which derived from other COM interfaces, you would need to declare a shadowing method for each base method on the base interfaces with the `new` keyword. See [the design doc](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/ComInterfaceGenerator/DerivedComInterfaces.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the built-in COM system, if you had interfaces which derived from other COM interfaces, you would need to declare a shadowing method for each base method on the base interfaces with the `new` keyword. See [COM interface inheritance and .NET](./qualify-net-types-for-interoperation#com-interface-inheritance-and-net) for more information.
```

```csharp
[ComImport]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IBase
{
    void Method1(int i);
    void Method2(float i);
}

[ComImport]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IDerived : IBase
{
    new void Method1(int i);
    new void Method2(float f);
    void Method3(long l);
    void Method4(double d);
}
```

> The COM interface generator does not expect any shadowing of base methods. To create a method that inherits from another, simply indicate the base interface as a C# base interface and add the derived interface's methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The COM interface generator does not expect any shadowing of base methods. To create a method that inherits from another, simply indicate the base interface as a C# base interface and add the derived interface's methods. See [the design doc](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/ComInterfaceGenerator/DerivedComInterfaces.md) for more information.
```

```csharp
[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IBase
{
    void Method1(int i);
    void Method2(float i);
}

[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IDerived : IBase
{
    void Method3(long l);
    void Method4(double d);
}
```

Note that an interface with the `GeneratedComInterface` attribute can only inherit from one base interface that has the `GeneratedComInterface` attribute.

### Marshal APIs

> Some APIs in <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal> are not compatible with source-generated COM. These methods should be replaced with their corresponding methods on StrategyBasedComWrappers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some APIs in <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal> are not compatible with source-generated COM. These methods should be replaced with their corresponding methods on a `ComWrappers` implementation.
```

---
title: ComWrappers source generation
description: Learn about compile-time source generation for ComWrappers in .NET.
ms.date: 08/25/2023
---

> # Source Generation for ComWrappers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Source generation for ComWrappers
```

.NET 8 introduces a source generator that creates an implementation of the [ComWrappers](./com-wrappers.md) API for you. The generator recognizes the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute>.

> The .NET runtime's built-in (not source-generated), Windows-only, COM interop system generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that is JIT-ed&mdash;at run-time to facilitate the transition from managed code to COM, and vice-versa. Since this IL stub is generated at run-time, it isn't compatible with [NativeAOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md), or [IL trimming](../../core/deploying/trimming/trim-self-contained.md). Stub generation at run-time can also make diagnosing marshalling issues difficult.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The .NET runtime's built-in (not source-generated), Windows-only, COM interop system generates an IL stub&mdash;a stream of IL instructions that's JIT-ed&mdash;at run time to facilitate the transition from managed code to COM, and vice-versa. Since this IL stub is generated at run time, it's incompatible with [NativeAOT](../../core/deploying/native-aot/index.md) and [IL trimming](../../core/deploying/trimming/trim-self-contained.md). Stub generation at run time can also make diagnosing marshalling issues difficult.
```

> Built-in interop uses attributes such as `ComImport` or `DllImport`, which rely on code generation at run-time. The following code shows an example of this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Built-in interop uses attributes such as `ComImport` or `DllImport`, which rely on code generation at run time. The following code shows an example of this:
```

nint ptr = GetPointerToComInterface();
IFoo foo = (IFoo)Marshal.GetObjectForIUnknown(ptr);
foo.Method(0);
...
// Use the system to create a COM Callable Wrapper to pass to unmanaged code
IFoo foo = GetManagedIFoo();
nint ptr = Marshal.GetIUnknownForObject(foo);
GivePointerToComInterface(ptr);
```

The `ComWrappers` API enables interacting with COM in C# without using the built-in COM system, but [requires substantial boilerplate and hand-written unsafe code](./tutorial-comwrappers.md). The COM interface generator automates this process and makes `ComWrappers` as easy as built-in COM, but delivers it in a trimmable and AOT-friendly manner.

## Basic usage

To use the COM interface generator, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.GuidAttribute> attributes on the interface definition that you want to import from or expose to COM. The type must be marked `partial` and have `internal` or `public` visibility for the generated code to be able to access it.

```csharp
[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
internal partial IFoo
{
    void Method(int i);
}
```

> Then, to expose a class that implements an interface to COM, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> to the implementing class. This class will also need to be `partial` and either `internal` or `public`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, to expose a class that implements an interface to COM, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> to the implementing class. This class must also be `partial` and either `internal` or `public`.
```

```csharp
[GeneratedComClass]
internal partial class Foo : IFoo
{
    public void Method(int i)
    {
        // Do things
    }
}
```

> At compile time, the generator will create an implementation of the ComWrappers API, and you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.StrategyBasedComWrappers> type or a custom derived type to consume or expose the COM interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At compile time, the generator creates an implementation of the ComWrappers API, and you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.StrategyBasedComWrappers> type or a custom derived type to consume or expose the COM interface.
```

```csharp
[LibraryImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static nint GetPointerToComInterface();

[LibraryImport("MyComObjectProvider.dll")]
static void GivePointerToComInterface(nint comObject);

// Use the ComWrappers API to create a Runtime Callable Wrapper to use in managed code
ComWrappers cw = new StrategyBasedComWrappers();
nint ptr = GetPointerToComInterface();
IFoo foo = (IFoo)cw.GetOrCreateObjectForComInterface(ptr);
foo.Method(0);
...
// Use the system to create a COM Callable Wrapper to pass to unmanaged code
ComWrappers cw = new StrategyBasedComWrappers();
Foo foo = new();
nint ptr = cw.GetOrCreateComInterfaceForObject(foo);
GivePointerToComInterface(ptr);
```

> ## Customizing marshalling

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Customize marshalling
```

> The COM interface generator respects the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.MarshalUsingAttribute> and some usages of <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> attributes to customize marshalling of parameters. For more information, see how to [customize source-generated marshalling with the `MarshalUsing` attribute](./custom-marshalling-source-generation.md) and [customize parameter marshalling with the `MarshalAs` attribute](./customize-parameter-marshalling.md). If an interface has `string` parameters or return types, the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshalling?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshallingCustomType?displayProperty=nameWithType> properties will apply to all parameters and return types of `string` in the interface if they don't have other marshalling attributes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The COM interface generator respects the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.MarshalUsingAttribute> attribute and some usages of the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> attribute to customize marshalling of parameters. For more information, see how to [customize source-generated marshalling with the `MarshalUsing` attribute](./custom-marshalling-source-generation.md) and [customize parameter marshalling with the `MarshalAs` attribute](./customize-parameter-marshalling.md). The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshalling?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute.StringMarshallingCustomType?displayProperty=nameWithType> properties apply to all parameters and return types of type `string` in the interface if they don't have other marshalling attributes.
```

> ## Implicit HRESULTs and PreserveSig

Reviewer 4: Do we want to add a section under here talking about the "`HRESULT` struct + `[MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.Error)]`" feature?

Author: Yeah, that's a good idea

COM methods in C# have a different signature than the native methods. Standard COM has a return type of `HRESULT`, a 4 byte integer type representing error and success states. This `HRESULT` return value is hidden by default in the C# signature and converted to an exception when an error value is returned. The last "out" parameter of the native COM signature may optionally be converted into the return in the C# signature.

For example, the following snippets show C# method signatures and the corresponding native signature the generator infers.

```csharp
void Method1(int i);

int Method2(float i);
```

```c
HRESULT Method1(int i);

HRESULT Method2(float i, _Out_ int* returnValue);
```

> If you want to handle the `HRESULT` yourself, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> on the method to indicate the generator should not do this transformation. Below are snippets that demonstrate what native signature the generator expects when `[PreserveSig]` is applied. COM methods must return `HRESULT`, so the return value of any method with `PreserveSig` should be `int`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to handle the `HRESULT` yourself, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> on the method to indicate the generator should not do this transformation. The following snippets demonstrate what native signature the generator expects when `[PreserveSig]` is applied. COM methods must return `HRESULT`, so the return value of any method with `PreserveSig` should be `int`.
```

```csharp
[PreserveSig]
int Method1(int i, out int j);

[PreserveSig]
int Method2(float i);
```

```c
HRESULT Method1(int i, int* j);

HRESULT Method2(float i);
```

For more information, see [Implicit method signature translations in .NET interop](./preserve-sig.md)

## Incompatibilities and differences to built-in COM

> ### IUnknown only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `IUnknown` only
```

> The only supported interface base is [`IUnknown`](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown). Interfaces with an <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InterfaceTypeAttribute> with a value other than <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsIUnknown> are not supported in source-generated COM. Any interfaces without an `InterfaceTypeAttribute` are assumed to derive from `IUnknown`. This differs from built-in COM where the default is <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsDual>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The only supported interface base is [`IUnknown`](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown). Interfaces with an <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InterfaceTypeAttribute> that has a value other than <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsIUnknown> are not supported in source-generated COM. Any interfaces without an `InterfaceTypeAttribute` are assumed to derive from `IUnknown`. This differs from built-in COM where the default is <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsDual>.
```

> The only supported interface base is [IUnknown](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown). Interfaces with an <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InterfaceTypeAttribute> with a value other values than <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsIUnknown> are not supported in source-generated COM. Any interfaces without an `InterfaceTypeAttribute` are assumed to derive from `IUnknown`. This differs from built-in COM where the default is <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsDual>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only supported interface base is [`IUnknown`](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown). Interfaces with an <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InterfaceTypeAttribute> with a value other than <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsIUnknown> are not supported in source-generated COM. Any interfaces without an `InterfaceTypeAttribute` are assumed to derive from `IUnknown`. This differs from built-in COM where the default is <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComInterfaceType.InterfaceIsDual>.
```

## Marshalling defaults and support

> Source-generated COM has some different default marshalling behaviors from built in COM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Source generated COM has some different default marshalling behaviors from built-in COM.
```

Author: We use source-generated in most other docs and analyzer warnings.

```suggestion
Source-generated COM has some different default marshalling behaviors from built-in COM.
```

> - In the built-in COM system, all types had an implicit `[In]` attribute except for arrays of blittable elements, which had implicit `[In, Out]` attributes. In source-generated COM, all types, including arrays of blittable elements, have `[In]` semantics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In the built-in COM system, all types have an implicit `[In]` attribute except for arrays of blittable elements, which have implicit `[In, Out]` attributes. In source-generated COM, all types, including arrays of blittable elements, have `[In]` semantics.
```

- `[In]` and `[Out]` attributes are only allowed on arrays. If `[Out]` or `[In, Out]` behavior is required on other types, use the `in` and `out` parameter modifiers.

### Derived interfaces

> In the built-in COM system, if you had interfaces which derived from other COM interfaces, you would need to declare a shadowing method for each base method on the base interfaces with the `new` keyword. See [COM interface inheritance and .NET](./qualify-net-types-for-interoperation.md#com-interface-inheritance-and-net) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the built-in COM system, if you have interfaces that derive from other COM interfaces, you must declare a shadowing method for each base method on the base interfaces with the `new` keyword. For more information, see [COM interface inheritance and .NET](./qualify-net-types-for-interoperation.md#com-interface-inheritance-and-net).
```

```csharp
[ComImport]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IBase
{
    void Method1(int i);
    void Method2(float i);
}

[ComImport]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IDerived : IBase
{
    new void Method1(int i);
    new void Method2(float f);
    void Method3(long l);
    void Method4(double d);
}
```

> The COM interface generator does not expect any shadowing of base methods. To create a method that inherits from another, simply indicate the base interface as a C# base interface and add the derived interface's methods. See [the design doc](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/ComInterfaceGenerator/DerivedComInterfaces.md) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The COM interface generator does not expect any shadowing of base methods. To create a method that inherits from another, simply indicate the base interface as a C# base interface and add the derived interface's methods. For more information, see [the design doc](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/libraries/ComInterfaceGenerator/DerivedComInterfaces.md).
```

```csharp
[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IBase
{
    void Method1(int i);
    void Method2(float i);
}

[GeneratedComInterface]
[Guid("3faca0d2-e7f1-4e9c-82a6-404fd6e0aab8")]
interface IDerived : IBase
{
    void Method3(long l);
    void Method4(double d);
}
```

Note that an interface with the `GeneratedComInterface` attribute can only inherit from one base interface that has the `GeneratedComInterface` attribute.

### Marshal APIs

> Some APIs in <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal> are not compatible with source-generated COM. These methods should be replaced with their corresponding methods on a `ComWrappers` implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some APIs in <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal> are not compatible with source-generated COM. Replace these methods with their corresponding methods on a `ComWrappers` implementation.
```
